source: Ryan Holiday
relevant:
- [[101.019 Zettelkasten - Just get started writing]]
- [[107.018 Philosophy - Stoicism - Time to get to work]]
- [[107.019 Philosophy - Jocko - Get your ass out of bed]]
- [[109.30 Productivity - Focus on a small number of important goals at a time]]
- [[109.42 Productivity - Wake up early]]
- [[109.45 Productivity - Prioritize and focus on one thing at a time]]
- [[130.008 Personal Habits - Napoleon focused on one thing at a time]]
- [[116.019 Life Lessons - FOCUS on what is most important right now]]
- [[116.026 Life Lessons - Perfection is the enemy of done]]
- [[116.033 Life Lessons - What I do every day matters more than what I do every once in a while]]
- [[116.058 Life Lessons - If it is important, do it first thing in the morning]]
- [[122.02.03 PM Why - Successful products require iterations]]
- [[122.07.04 PM Discovery Process - Product discovery requires iteration]]
- [[128.002 Management - Trade-off between time and quality]]
- [[128.003 Management - Find the best solution in the time available]]
- [[131.001 Leadership - Napoleon learned how to do every job in the military]]
- [[131.005 Leadership - Napoleon was across every detail]]
- [[131.017 Leadership - Focus on the process, not the outcome]]
- [[131.020 Leadership - Continuous improvement in fundamentals and details]]
- [[132.001 How to change]]
- [[132.004 Change - The work of change happens every day]]

# Be satisfied with even the smallest progress

Anything I've ever accomplished in life started off as one very tiny thought followed by one very tiny action. And then another thought, and another action, repeatedly, compounding on top of each other over time to eventually become something important.

In the end, it's easy to lose sight of this minuscule genesis of big things. So try to remember that when you want to cause change, when you want to achieve, when you want to be noticed - it's not a grand gesture that's necessary, it is just one tiny thought followed by one tiny action, and then do it again and again.

From the Ryan Holiday email titled "How to Make Zero Progress":
> _"Marcus Aurelius talked about how we can’t wait for perfection. Because if you do, that’s all you’ll do: wait. Instead, he wrote, “Be satisfied with even the smallest progress.” Action by action, step by step, he said, that’s how we assemble a life. Zeno, well before Marcus, said that these small steps amount to no small thing._
> 
> _The little things add up. Because they are real."_

