source: 
- [[125.016 Books -  Thinking in Bets - Annie Duke]]
- Munger
tags:
relevant:
- [[108.10.10.30 Data Analysis - Pre-mortem]]
- [[108.10.60 Data Analysis - Project post-mortem]]
- [[109.23 Productivity - Review your time spent and improve it]]
- [[126.001 Decision Making - Expected Value]]
- [[116.027 Life Lessons - Sometimes it's better to backtrack one mile]]
- [[116.041 Life Lessons - When it counts is BEFORE all hell breaks loose]]
- [[116.043 Life Lessons - Live as if you were already living for the second time]]
- [[116.047 Life Lessons - He who best defines the problem usually wins]]
- [[116.059 Life Lessons - Make your decisions as expected value calculations]]
- [[119.007 Conflict - Know what question you want answered]]
- [[122.01.09 PM Skillset - Thinking qualitatively and quantitatively]]
- [[126.009 Decision Making - First Principles Thinking]]
- [[126.013.03 The Questions - 3. What could kill us?]]
- [[126.013.09 The Questions - 9. Think 2 steps ahead]]
- [[126.021 Decision Making - Regret a decision before you make it]]

# Invert, always invert

We are always asking ourselves how to get what we want. It's easy and natural, but thinking this way is dangerously incomplete on its own.

Very often the way to get what you want is avoid getting what you _don't want!_ This way of "thinking backward" is less natural, but much easier, and fills in many voids of only thinking forward.

For example, I can consider how to have a happy wife, and think of some things that would make her happy. Those things are certainly valid thoughts, but if it was natural I'd already be doing them. There is a better way: To have a happy wife, it's easiest to _not_ have an unhappy wife! When I turn the question on its head, the answers are more clear because she tells me all the time what I do that makes her unhappy.

Another, less facetious example: If I want to run marathon, I could create a training regimen which could ultimately enable me to run a marathon. But it's important to invert the question and realize that in order to run a marathon I also need to do the which would prevent me from _not_ running a marathon, like missing workouts, getting hurt, eating poorly, etc., and those things are probably more important toward my end goal than the training regimen.
