source: Me
relevant:
- [[106.005 About me - My life mission]]
- [[106.007 About me - Life philosophy]]
- [[107.015 Philosophy - Stoicism - Rich or happy]]
- [[107.025 Philosophy - Render yourself worthy]]
- [[107.027 Philosophy - Virtue through purpose]]
- [[107.028 Philosophy - The only way is through]]
- [[107.031 Philosophy - Be satisfied with even the smallest progress]]
- [[109.20 Productivity - Schedule your day]]
- [[109.30 Productivity - Focus on a small number of important goals at a time]]
- [[109.32 Productivity - Measure progress toward goals]]
- [[109.35 Productivity - Productive meditation]]
- [[109.37 Productivity - Monique is a beautiful and worthwhile use of of time]]
- [[109.45 Productivity - Prioritize and focus on one thing at a time]]
- [[110.001 Startups - Build a better way to do something they're already doing anyway]]
- [[116.004 Life Lessons - I don't become something I'm not already]]
- [[116.006 Life Lessons - Personality is set. Build confidence]]
- [[116.019 Life Lessons - FOCUS on what is most important right now]]
- [[116.021 Life Lessons - If you're not growing you're dying]]
- [[116.032 Life Lessons - What do you want out of this life]]
- [[116.040 Life Lessons - You make your life what you want it to be]]
- [[116.049 Life Lessons - You get what you give]]
- [[116.056 Life Lessons - Control the inputs not the outcomes]]
- [[116.104 Life Lessons - Don't stop yet]]
- [[119.006 Conflict - Is this fight about what you think it's about]]
- [[119.025 NVC - Nobody else is responsible for my feelings]]
- [[119.049 NVC - The hardest part of communication is staying present for it]]
- [[126.009.02 First Principles Thinking - Confirmation bias]]
- [[126.012 Decision Making - Your first reaction is outdated]]
- [[126.014 Decision Making - Refine your opinions over time]]
- [[126.018 Decision Making - Beware of immediate rewards]]
- [[126.024 Decision Making - Imagine both positive and negative futures]]
- [[130.005 Personal Habits - Lincoln studied hard topics]]
- [[130.008 Personal Habits - Napoleon focused on one thing at a time]]
- [[131.017 Leadership - Focus on the process, not the outcome]]
- [[131.020 Leadership - Continuous improvement in fundamentals and details]]
- [[132.001 How to change]]

# Your thoughts become your reality

A thought repeated will manifest in the world, as real as it can be. And you won't notice it becoming real because you already thought it was true.

_Do you feel like you're getting old? Yes, you are, and you feel old._

vs.

_Do you feel like you have as much energy to thrive as any time in life? Yes, you do, and you'll thrive._

Both of these things can be as true as you make them in your mind. Repeated over time, one thought will reduce the quality of your life and kill you early, and the other thought will give you compounding returns on your health and relationships and result in a longer happier life.

So, what better excuse to be an optimist and be grateful for what you have!